# Datasheet Template
Data used is from Kaggle ,https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/bhuviranga/customer-churn-data. data has 10000 record , its an open data source .this data has features like credit score, balance , country , estimated salary , vintage of customer , credit card relatioship  and outcome customer churned or not.

## Motivation
 Data was created for the purpose to analyse the churn pattern and  develop strategies and interventions to reduce churn and improve customer retention
Author not known , so we can say ABC Bank.



The customer churn dataset is a collection of customer data that focuses on predicting customer churn, which refers to the tendency of customers to stop using a company's products or services. The dataset contains various features that describe each customer, such as their credit score, country, gender, age, tenure, balance, number of products, credit card status, active membership, estimated salary, and churn status. The churn status indicates whether a customer has churned or not. The dataset is used to analyze and understand factors that contribute to customer churn and to build predictive models to identify customers at risk of churning. The goal is to develop strategies and interventions to reduce churn and improve customer retention
 
## Composition
its an open data source .this data has features like credit score, balance , country , estimated salary , vintage of customer , credit card relatioship  and outcome customer churned or not.
Few of the data composition listed below

Sex 
Male      5457
Female    4543

Country
France     5014
Germany    2509
Spain      2477

estSalary
max  199992.48
min  11.58

Credit_Score
max  850
min   350

Output(Y) customer churned or not(Exited)

0    7963- No
1    2037 -Yes

No Missing record for each column
ID_cu                    0
Surname                  0
Credit_score             0
Country                  0
sex                      0
Age                      0
Tenure_with_bank_year    0
Balance                  0
NumOfProducts            0
OwnCard                  0
IsActiveMember           0
estSalary                0
Exited                   0

Customer Surname and credit score is present in the data set but these 2 only will not contribute to confidentilty,



## Collection process

Collection process is not known , but it seems it is been generated by bank and given as part of this analyis , this is taken from broader bank data set. colection period is also not known.

## Preprocessing/cleaning/labelling

- Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done (e.g., discretization or bucketing, tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, SIFT feature extraction, removal of instances, processing of missing values)? If so, please provide a description. If not, you may skip the remaining questions in this section. 
- Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data (e.g., to support unanticipated future uses)? 
 
## Uses

- What other tasks could the dataset be used for? 
- Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses? For example, is there anything that a dataset consumer might need to know to avoid uses that could result in unfair treatment of individuals or groups (e.g., stereotyping, quality of service issues) or other risks or harms (e.g., legal risks, financial harms)? If so, please provide a description. Is there anything a dataset consumer could do to mitigate these risks or harms? 
- Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used? If so, please provide a description.

## Distribution

- How has the dataset already been distributed? 
- Is it subject to any copyright or other intellectual property (IP) license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?  

## Maintenance

- Who maintains the dataset?

